<chapter id="configuration">
<title>LCDproc Configuration</title>

<sect1 id="configure-lcdd">
<title>Configure LCDd</title>

<para>
As mentioned in the <link linkend=introduction>introduction</link>
LCDd, the LCDproc server, now (with version 0.4.3 of LCDproc) has its
own configuration file, which is normally <filename>/etc/LCDd.conf</filename>.
</para>

<note>
<para>
If you have not installed LCDproc from the sources the configuration
file might have a different location. You should find it when making
your system's package manager list all the files in the LCDproc package.
</para>
</note>

<para>
The format of the <filename>/etc/LCDd.conf</filename> is ini-file-like.
</para>
<para>
It is divided into sections that start at
markers that look like [section]. Comments are all line-based comments,
and are lines that start with '#' or ';'.
</para>

<para>
The server has a 'central' section named [server]. Further each driver
has a section which defines how the driver acts. Those sections start with
[drivername].
</para>
<para>
<anchor id=which-driver>The drivers are activated by specifiying them in a driver= line in the
server section, like:
</para>

<example>
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: Specify which driver to use</title>
<programlisting>

Driver=curses

</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
This tells LCDd to use the curses driver. The first driver specified here
must be 'the' output driver. Currently LCDd will exit when several output
drivers have been specified here.
All extra drivers can only serve as input.
The default driver to use is curses.
</para>

<warning>
<para>
If LCDd is started automatically by an init-script using the curses drivers
will lock <filename>/dev/tty1</filename>! So, be careful about what you are
doing here.
</para>
</warning>

<para>
The drivers can read their own options from the config file, but most of
them don't do this yet. They expect 'command-line'-format parameters that
were previously placed on the command line. These parameters can be
given to the driver in the following way:
</para>

<example>
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: Compatibility mode for drivers written for 0.4.1</title>
<programlisting>

Arguments="place arguments here"

</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
The arguments between the quotes are passed to the driver.
As said before these are the same arguments that the driver would have
been passed under the old command line format of
</para>

<para>
<command>LCDd -d driver "driverargs"</command>
</para>

<note>
<para>
The -d option still works, but does not allow driverargs any more.
</para>
<para>
If -d is specified on the command line, the Driver= options in the
config file are ignored.
</para>
</note>

<sect2 id="server-section">
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The [server] Section</title>

<para>
The [server] section of the <filename>LCDd.conf</filename> contains the
settings for the LCDproc server <application>LCDd</application>.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Driver=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Tells the server which driver(s) to use. See
<link linkend=which-driver>above</link> for details
</para>
<note>
<para>
The default setting is Driver=none which makes the server exit right
after the start. This is neccessary to avoid trouble with package installations.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Bind=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Tells the server to bind to the given interface. Default to Bind=127.0.0.1 which
is actually the safest variant.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Port=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Tells the server to listen to this specified port; defaults to 13666.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>ReportLevel=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets the reporting level; defaults to 2 (warnings and errors only).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>ReportToSyslog=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Should we report to syslog instead of stderr ? Defaults to no.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>WaitTime=
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets the default time in seconds to display a screen.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>User=
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
User to run as.  LCDd will drop its root privileges,
if any, and run as this user instead. Defaults to User=nobody.
</para>
<note>
<para>
If you want to use the server menu, to shutdown or reboot your system,
 you will have to set this toroot. Otherwise LCDd does not have the
 privileges to run commands like <command>init 6</command>.
</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>ServerScreen=
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Enables the server screen even when other screens are active. Defaults to
no.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Foreground=</term>
<listitem>
<para>
The server will stay in the foreground if set to true.
Otherwise the server will fork to background and report
to syslog. Defaults to yes.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="drivers-section">
<title><filename>LCDd.conf</filename>: The Drivers Section</title>

<para>
As mentioned earlier, each driver has its own section in the
<filename>LCDd.conf</filename>.
</para>

<para>
The settings are more or less self-explanatory. So, read through the
section of your driver and change everything neccessary.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="init-scripts">
<title>The LCDproc Init Scripts</title>

<para>
The LCDproc distribution contains init scripts for RedHat- and Debian-based
GNU/Linux distributions. You can find them in the <filename>docs/</filename>
directory of the LCDproc sources.
</para>

<note>
<para>
The init scripts are generated using autoconf. So, again it is important that
you have run <command>./configure</command> with the correct options for your
system.
</para>
</note>

<para>
Refer to your system's manual on how to install the scripts.
</para>

<sect2 id="init-lcdd">
<title>init-LCDd</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-LCDd.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc server LCDd. It does not require modification.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="init-lcdproc">
<title>init-lcdproc</title>
<para>
The file <filename>scripts/init-lcdproc.*</filename> is the init script for the
LCDproc "main" client lcdproc. As lcdproc does not (yet) have a configuration file
you may want to modify the options that are passed to lcdproc.
</para>

<note>
<para>
You can retrieve a listing of all options of lcdproc running <command>lcdproc --help</command>.
</para>
</note>

<example>
<title><filename>init-lcdproc.debian</filename>: Modify the option passed to lcdproc (Debian)</title>
<programlisting>

start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --background --exec ${lcdproc} -- C

</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
In this example lcdproc will only send information on the CPU usage to the server.
</para>

<example>
<title><filename>init-lcdproc.rpm</filename>: Modify the option passed to lcdproc (RedHat)</title>
<programlisting>

daemon ${lcdproc} C X &

</programlisting>
</example>

<para>
In this example lcdproc will only send information on the CPU usage [C] and system load [X] to the server.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>


</chapter>
